#summary Definitions of the Email data structure, functions, and modules associated.
#labels ACL2,XML,Email

= Introduction =

The Email (server module) will parse an incoming email message and the direct it to the specified client output folder.

= Dependencies = 
./client/include/xml-scanner.lisp
./client/include/io-utilities.lisp

= Email Storage =

_./$name.xml_ (File is defined by the name of the mailing list.)
{{{
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE email SYSTEM "email.dtd">
<email>
	<to>wesley.howell@localhost</to>
	<from>matthew.crist@localhost</from>
	<subject>Message1 subject</subject>
	<message>Test For a Message Would be Here</message>
</email>
}}}

_http://localhost/dtd/mailing_list.dtd_
{{{
<!ELEMENT to (#PCDATA)>
<!ELEMENT from (#PCDATA)>
<!ELEMENT subject (#PCDATA)>
<!ELEMENT message (#PCDATA)>
}}}

= Data Structure =
{{{to}}} - address - The address(es) to send an email.

{{{from}}} - address - The address that sent the email.

{{{name}}} - string - The name portion of the email address.

{{{domain}}} - string - The domain portion of the email address.

{{{subject}}} - string - The subject of the email message.

{{{message}}} - string - The content of the message.

_((to1 to2 ... ton) from subject message)_

=== Example ===
From the xml file described above, the sample data structure would be:

{{{
( ("localhost" "matthew.crist") ("localhost" "adam.ghodratnama")) 
  ("localhost" "wesley.howell")
  "Message Subject"
  "Email Message Content" )
}}}

= Function Definitions =
{{{(defun readEmailText (file state))}}} - Reads an email message, then outputs the contents to the console.
{{{(defun writeEmailHTML (file state))}}} - Outputs the email HTML format text to the specified file.
{{{(defun readEmail(fileIn fileOut state)}}} - Entry point for reading email from the server. Reads in the file and directs it to the clients inbox.
{{{(defun writeEmailToFile(xmlStr to ts state)}}} - Writes an email based on strings to a file.
{{{(defun writeMessage(to from sub msg state)}}} - Entry point for client writing. Writes an email message based on the string values of the parameters. 

= File Information =
*Lines of Code*: 51

*Functions*: Not defined.

*Entry Point*: (writeMessage (to from sub msg state)) and (readEmail (fin fout state))

*File Location*: ./client/modules/email/send-email/rw-email.lisp


= Properties and Testing =

This file include IO functions. Since this function relies on something that might not be there, we therefore cannot test the IO capabilities by theorems. 